- [Presenter] When using GitOps in tandem
with the Cloud Native approach,
we rely upon container technologies to run our system.
Containers are Linux-based technology
that allows applications to be packaged
with their dependencies so they can run in any environment.
So let's take a step back and take a high level look
at how software was traditionally operated.
It was common to provision a server with an underlying OS
where we would install the prerequisite software
dependencies required to run our system.
So this could be something like a JDK
for a Java application or maybe an application server.
We might also have configuration files on the server
that our software needs to run.
At first, we might build this on a local workstation
and then we'd promote it to upper environments
like development or production.
That's where the problems can start to arise.
For the software to run correctly,
we need the environments to match.
So all dependencies and configuration
must be in place where the softwares ran.
This problem can be solved using containers.
Containers allow us to virtualize the operating system
and supply key dependencies in a single packaging unit
the application runs within.
I'd like to say it this way.
You package the software with its environment
and that's what gets deployed.
When working with containers,
docker is the one technology that stands above the rest.
It's a full platform focused on helping us build
and run containers.
Let's talk a little bit about how it works.
It starts by building a docker file
where we specify the instructions
for how to build a container image.
A container image is a template for building a container.
When we build an image,
it gets stored in an image registry.
From the image registry,
we pull images to run on the container runtime
where the containers are executing our software
in an isolated process space.
Here's a helpful analogy if you're familiar
with object-oriented development.
You can think of the Docker file
as the source code for a container.
The container image as a class and the running container
has an instance of the class.
When we build a container image,
it includes everything the software needs to run.
So it can be run as a container on any host
where a container runtime is installed
that's the beauty of containerized applications.
They're extremely portable and they transfer nicely
between different environments and data centers.
For the GitOps model operating software
in containers provides many benefits.
Because containers are lighter weight
and abstracting from the host environment,
it's easier for an automated agent to quickly spin them up
or stop them, whatever it needs to do
to match the desired state in Git.
That's why containers are important
for GitOps implementations.
But we'll need to explore another related practice named
orchestration in our next lesson to get the full picture.